# Chrysalis RFC Call - 2020-06-25

## Participants

- Wolfgang
- Thibault
- Luca
- Gal
- Hans

## Topics

### RFC Status

Chrysalis RFCs:
- Reduced min approval count to 3
- [RFC-0001](https://github.com/iotaledger/protocol-rfcs/pull/1):
  - No more remarks
  - Ask Hornet devs for feedback
- [RFC-0015](https://github.com/iotaledger/protocol-rfcs/pull/15):
  - Discuss Gal's comments offline
  - Ask Hornet devs for feedback
- [RFC-0012](https://github.com/Wollac/protocol-rfcs/blob/milestone-merkle-validation/text/0012-milestone-merkle-validation/0012-milestone-merkle-validation.md): 
  - Blockers:
    - Merge RFC-0015 (reference merged RFC after that)

### UTxO for Chrysalis Meeting

#### Proposals:
   - Hans: https://github.com/hmoog/protocol-rfcs/blob/master/text/0011-utxo-model/0011-utxo-model.md
   - Wolfgang: https://hackmd.io/@CcRtfCBnRbW82-AdbFJUig/H1zu0q7p8
   - Gal: https://hackmd.io/@cIrs3AfUSq2uSeQ2tBF9fw/rJoT5xIT8
   - Luca: https://hackmd.io/@XFC6dFQkSiOpICDucms41Q/SJtyp71CL

#### Decisions

- Design a flexible layout, that is likely to handle Coordicide and future changes; not "just" Chrysalis.
- Do this iteratively: Start with the most simple amount-based UTxO and then extend (multisig, W-OTS, tokens, ...)
- Prefer `protobuf`-like design language for the draft process
- Motivate potential types in e.g. input, even if currently unused
- Detailed (see Chrysalis RFC Call 06-16):
  - Use `tx_id` + `tx_output_index`
  - Each transaction should include `transaction_type`/`version`
  - `input_type` should be added to each input
  - Each output should be type-able (Use `output_type` or `opcode`)

#### Topics to discuss

1. UTxO base layout: discuss proposals of everyone
3. Serialization (e.g. deterministic `protobuf`, `CBOR`, manual, ...): Wolfgang will present existing solution a bit
4. Address encoding
5. UTxO with backward compatible W-OTS
6. UTxO with multisig
7. Colored Coins: Hans will present/motivate his proposed solution

#### When? Who? How?

- Mon July 6 - Wed July 8 all day
  - (Wednesday is reserve; Hans might not be able to join that day)
- Attendees:
  - Wolfgang, Thibault, Luca, Gal, Hans
  - Invite Vlad whether he has time and wants to listen in
- Format:
  - All day remote meeting
  - We will try miro.com
- Preparation:
  - Read up on what other cryptos are doing wrt. Transaction Layout, Serialization, Address encoding, (non-smart contract) Colored Coins
  - We will prepare a HackMD to collect all the links, comments, etc. for preparation 
